Vis 1: The barplot for number of attempted shots by team is a static plot made with Matplotlib, where the user can compare the number of shot attempts between teams during the 2019-2020 NBA season. The plot is a horizontal bar plot so that the names of the teams on the y-axis labels can be easily read. Because the values are sorted, the number of shot attempts can be compared using the teams' vertical position. Therefore, users can easily identify the teams with the highest or lowest number of shot attempts. This is a data visualization that displays the general overview of the data. In the original data, each row represents a shot taken during the 2019-2020 NBA season. Since each team had a total of around 6,000 shots and there are a total of 30 teams, there is a total of about 180,000 records in our dataset for the 2019 season. 

Vis 2: The side-by-side shot chart figure is an interactive plot made with Matplotlib, where the user can compare shot charts from different teams from 2000 and 2019. These shot charts are scatter plots where each point represents the location on the court where a player has taken a shot, along with a color encoding to indicate the outcome of the shot (made or missed). Both shot charts have the same color encoding, so we included a shared legend for both plots. The radio buttons allow users to select (same or different) teams from 2000 and 2019 to compare their shot charts. The figure also has 5 buttons (reset, undo, redo, pan, and zoom). After clicking on the pan or zoom button, users can pan and zoom either shot chart by clicking and dragging their mouse across the chart. The reset button allows users to restore both charts to their original size/position. The undo and redo buttons allow users to undo and redo their previous button actions.

Vis 3: The side by side bar plot is made using D3. This is a static plot and by looking at the plot we can identify both the number of three pointers and two pointers attempted by each player on the New York Knicks. I use two colors to distinguish each category. This opted to use a vertical side by side barplot over a horizontal side by side barplot as the length and area of each bar can be more easily interpreted when the graph is vertical. 

Vis 4: The line plot is a representation of the average shot distance of each team from 2000-2020, with data taken every 2 years. Given all of the individual shot data, we averaged the shot distance per team for each season, displaying the progression and trend of shot distances over the last two decades. Additionally, teams have changed locations over the last 20 years, so the shot data has been consolidated and grouped by their current team’s location. This line graph is an interactive plot made with Altair, where the user can change the team’s plot they would like to view through the dropdown menu. Teams are organized in alphabetical order, with the option to choose all teams to be displayed, although difficult to see. 

Vis 5: The histogram representing the 3-pointer distribution based on time remaining is a static plot made with Matplotlib. The histogram is designed so that the user can identify when the most 3-pointers are taken in a game. We partition the histogram into 4 parts, each representing the 4 quarters in a game, which makes it more convenient to compare values at each quarter and provides more context of when most 3-pointers are taken in each quarter. The color choice of the histogram bars is by default. 

Vis 6: The box plot comparing the aggregation of team wins and losses is static. Altair is used to construct the plot and tooltip is employed to allow users to look at the interquartile range and the max and minimum shot distance. This helps the reader gauge how similar the distribution is when looking at the exact numbers. I choose to use the color blue to signify when teams win and red for when teams lose. I avoid using green and red as it may affect people who are colorblind and have trouble distinguishing both colors. 

Vis 7: The side by side barplot is comparing the Milwaukee Bucks and the Cleveland Cavaliers, the best and worst teams in the Eastern Conference of the NBA, respectively. Using the shot data from 2019-2020, this takes all the shots taken by each team, and groups them into made shots vs. missed shots. Additionally, within made and missed shots, 2-pointers and 3-pointers are counted separately, resulting in a side by side bar plot of shots taken for each team. This is a static plot made through Altair, and users can utilize the tooltip to hover over each bar, which will show the attempt type (2-pointer vs 3-pointer), the outcome (made vs missed), as well as the total count of shots in that category. 



